If we only ever needed to work with a small number of numbers like this, then this would be great.
What you learned in the last video would be everything you'd need to code in Python.
But we will be working with large collections of numbers organized into vectors and matrices and tensors.
Not to mention other kinds of information like strings and so on.
And so we quickly run out of patience trying to write out hundreds or billions of numbers like this.
So instead we are going to start organizing and storing information into variables.
Okay.
And that's the main point of this video.
There are many different types of variables for different types of information that we want to store.
In this video, I will introduce you to a very small number of types of variables, and you will learn
about other types of variables as you progress throughout this Python intro and also in the rest of
the course.
So let's begin with setting a variable to be a number.
So I will write x equals five.
So now I'm creating a variable x and I'm defining it as being equal to the number five.
Now when I run this cell it doesn't produce any output.
Okay.
So that's a little bit different from like these cells where we ran the code cell and we got an output
here.
We don't get an output because there's an assignment.
So when you have an assignment of information into a variable then Python does not actually produce
any output.
It runs the code but it doesn't display anything.
But we can display the information that we have stored in here just by writing out the variable.
So now we see that x equals five which is exactly what we set it to okay.
And then I will define another variable.
How about 4.5.
So now I have two variables.
And yeah, we don't get any output here.
And now what we can do is start working with these variables the way that we have previously worked
with just writing out the numbers.
So I can write x plus y.
And that is going to give me what do you think is going to be the output there.
Well it's going to be five plus 4.5.
So the answer is going to be 9.5.
I'm sure you guessed that answer correctly.
And we can keep working with this.
We can say you know x plus y squared is 2525.
Variables are really powerful because they allow us to keep reusing the same information repeatedly
throughout the code.
Now, you know, maybe in this case you think that this isn't really necessary.
We don't need this variable here.
But you will see when we start working with very large collections of numbers, that these variables
really become critical.
Okay.
So far I've created two variables, and I gave each of them a single letter name.
So just the variable x and just the letter y for this variable.
Single letter variable names is fine in some cases if you're only using the variable for a short period
of time, but very often it's helpful to write out longer variable names that are more meaningful that
convey some information about what is the object that you are actually storing in that variable.
So there are some rules and some guidelines for naming variables.
So for example I can write down a longer variable name like this.
So now I have lots and lots of letters inside this variable name.
And I don't know let's set that equal to 17.
How about 17 to the power of 4.3.
There you go.
Just to make things a little more interesting okay.
Now you know, on the one hand this variable I was just curious what this number actually equals.
This variable is longer, so it's more work to write out.
It takes up more room.
And but on the other hand, it is also going to allow us a way to convey information about what is actually
contained.
Now in this case this is not very informative, but you will see that we get longer names that are actually
informative.
And notice also so a couple things I want to point out.
So I could write a longer variable variable name like this.
Let's set this b I don't know 14 times three.
Whatever.
These two variable names may look the same to you, but they are not the same to Python.
So Python is case sensitive, which means that these two names, although they contain the same letters
because there are lowercase letters here and uppercase letters here, these actually are completely
different variables.
And yeah, just to demonstrate that I'm going to print let's see I'll print out this one and then I
will.
So I'm just copying and pasting here.
And then I will print out this one.
And here you see that these are two distinct variables.
Okay.
Uh another thing that I want to point out is that here I have all of the new words with capital letters
like this that helps you read the variable name.
This is called camel case.
That's the specific term in computer science for when variables have multiple words, or variable names
have multiple words.
And each word begins with an uppercase letter.
So it's like a camel with humps.
I think that's the way you're supposed to see it.
The other style is called another naming style.
Style equals.
I'll just set this to be for.
This one is called Snake case.
So here the idea is that you still have multiple words in a variable name, but those words are separated
by, uh, by an underscore instead of by capitalizing each new word.
So camel case and snake case.
If you look around on the internet, you will find people who have very strong opinions about which
of these styles should and should not be used.
I have no personal preference.
I have no skin in this game.
I think the important thing is to have variable names that are sensible, that provide some information
about, uh, or some hints about the information that they provide and also that is readable to other
people.
Um, so you will actually see in my code throughout this course I use both camel case and snake case.
Uh, sometimes I just pick one style at random.
Sometimes I think certain names look better, look more readable in camel case versus snake case, there's
was really as you like.
That said, there are some commonalities between these two variable names, and in particular they do
not contain any spaces.
So this for example is not a variable.
Okay.
So the problem here is that we have spaces.
Whereas you know this is a valid variable name because this has no spaces and this does have spaces.
Now you can see that here I have a non-alphanumeric character.
So an underscore.
So that might lead you to wonder whether it's possible to use other non-alphanumeric characters like,
I don't know, a question mark.
So how about this.
Also not a variable.
Okay.
So this is also going to give us an error.
And here the problem is that Python does not allow us to use other non-alphanumeric characters as variable
names, except for the underscore.
That's an exception.
So underscores can be used in variable names.
But most other special characters cannot be used in variable names.
But there are some other opportunities that we have.
So we can have numbers.
We can have a number to use.
So you can use the number two in place of two.
So this is completely fine.
That is allowed.
And this sort of notation we use often.
Let me say you know a parameter for the analysis something like this.
So this you will also see as well substituting the number four instead of the word four to indicate
a variable that will be used for a specific application.
All that said numbers can be inside of variable names.
They can be at the end of variable names like this, but they cannot be at the beginning of a variable
name.
So this is not allowed because we can have numbers in the variable names, but not at the beginning
of the variable name.
Very good.
So that is some information about variable naming conventions and rules.
And now so far we've only been working with variables that are numeric so that contain information about
numbers.
There's another type of variable that encodes strings or characters.
So here we can have a string variable and that equals the word hello.
And notice that this is going to give us an error.
In fact the issue here is that Python is actually thinking that hello.
Here is a variable that we have previously defined, but we have not actually defined a variable called
hello.
So that's why we get an error.
Instead what I want to do is have this be a string for.
Hello.
So you see the single quotes here.
So now we can see what this variable outputs.
And it is the the word hello.
Or actually you know these five characters.
Hello.
Okay.
And now we can start doing math with strings which sounds kind of funny but it is possible.
So string variable.
Now what's going to happen if we multiply this string by two.
If you think about, you know, common sense, it might seem weird to, you know, we know what multiplication
of numbers means, but what does it mean to multiply hello by two.
Well, let's just try it and find out.
So we get hello.
Hello.
So when you use the asterisk symbol on a string variable, it repeats that variable some number of times.
So here I can write hello hello hello hello hello.
Four times like this.
Now I'm going to redefine this to be uh, to include a space in here.
So notice that this is not a space outside of the quote here.
These spaces are completely ignored by Python, but this space over here is inside the quote.
So this is actually part of the string.
And that you see here, you see there's some space between the O and the single quote here.
Okay.
So now when we multiply this by four we're going to get spaces.
So we see a very enthusiastic greeting over here.
Okay.
So that is multiplying by an integer or a whole number.
What do you think would happen if we multiply by let's say 2.5.
Maybe it's going to repeat this twice.
And then one time we only get half like the, you know, hell or h-e-l.
Let's see what happens, huh?
So we get an error.
And this says that we cannot multiply the sequence, which is this string.
It's a sequence of letters by a non integer of type float okay.
So this is a little bit confusing to interpret if you're new to like coding and computer science.
But effectively what Python is saying is I know how to repeat a sequence twice.
I don't know what it means to repeat a sequence 2.5 times.
Okay.
And this is a nice transition into different types of variables.
So I've already said that we have variables for numbers here I've created a variable for a string.
We can actually figure out the type of information that is contained in a variable by using the function
type like this.
So you already know about this function print.
And now here is another function called type.
So let's do type x.
And we can see that type x is int.
This stands for integer which is the same thing as a whole number okay.
So the number you know the counting numbers are integers.
And then we have let's see string variable.
And this is of type str which stands for string.
And then we have let's see, what else do we have a longer variable name.
And here we get a float okay.
So now you have seen three different types of variables an int a string and a float.
INTs are integers, strings are characters alphanumeric characters.
And what is a float?
Well, a float stands for or short for floating point number, which means that there is a decimal point
in there.
So this is an important distinction to appreciate in code in computers that there is a difference between
the integer ten and the floating point number 10.0.
Now when you look at these two numbers, let me actually I'll very briefly introduce you to another
concept here.
I'm going to take the output of this function and embed it into another function okay.
So I have this function for type And then I embed it into the function print.
Okay.
So then we have this number which is a float.
And this is an int.
Now when you as a human look at these two numbers you probably think well these are you know exactly
the same number.
It's both the number ten.
But for computer these actually are different.
They are different in terms of possibilities for uses.
For example, we can think about repeating a string ten times, but we cannot really think about repeating
a string 10.0 times because this is, you know, similar data type to 10.2 times.
And also in terms of just memory storage, it takes more memory on the computer to store this number
compared to this number okay.
So these actually are distinct.
In some cases you will find that it doesn't matter for a particular operation that you're trying to
perform.
It may not matter whether you use a float or an int, but there are other situations where it really
does matter and your code will crash.
If you think you're using an int but you're actually using a float.
You will see examples of this later on.
Okay, so different types of variables for strings, for ints and for floating point numbers.
I guess one thing I wanted to discuss up here with the strings is also let me see num as string, just
to highlight the difference between this num as float 2.4.
Now these two variables here are not the same thing.
You can see they're also colored differently.
This is actually a number we can work with this number.
We can do arithmetic with this number.
This is a string.
It is written out 2.4.
It's the string 2.4.
We cannot work with this number.
And to demonstrate that we can try doing arithmetic with this variable.
So two times four times 2 or 2.4 times two.
Well you know, if we're thinking about this as a number then we know the answer to this.
It's 4.8 right.
But if you run this equation you get 2.42.4.
On the other hand, if I do num as float times two, then here we get 4.8 as expected.
Okay.
There are ways to convert back and forth between these, but I'm not going to worry about.
Well, actually, now that I've mentioned it, I will tell you this just very quickly.
Okay.
So num as string and I can use another function called float.
Um, so this is converting this string into a floating point number.
And now we actually can use this as a regular number.
The way you think about numbers and multiplying it by two.
So far I have been using single quotes to indicate strings.
And why do I do that?
Why not double quotes and do the double quotes mean something completely different?
Well, it turns out that single quotes and double quotes can be used in the same way, but we need to
have both, because we need to allow for a situation where we have apostrophes.
So if I want to refer to my books, then you can already see the lettering.
The coloring of these letters is different here.
So what's actually happening here is Python sees this as a string, and it doesn't know what to do with
all of this.
And it thinks that something is missing here.
So it says Unterminated string literal.
I apologize on behalf of the Python developers for these syntax error messages.
They are not so easy to decipher.
But as you start working more with Python, you will get a hang of how to interpret these errors.
Okay.
But anyway, the point is that, uh, Python just doesn't really know how to make sense of this.
So instead, we can encase this entire expression in double quotes.
And now you see that all of these letters have the same, uh, color.
Okay.
And now, yeah, that's, uh, we have an apostrophe in there.
And the opposite is also possible.
So I can encase the outer string so the full string in single quotes.
And I can have a double quote inside here.
So for the possessive case this looks awkward.
But you can imagine saying something like this.
Mike says hi.
There you go.
So this is now possible.
So basically you can use single quotes or double quotes as you like.
Okay.
Now I'm going to create some new variables.
First name.
Let me do it like this.
First name equals Mike and last name equals Cohen.
That's me.
Uh, so uh, here you see what I'm referring to with meaningful variable names.
If I call this A and B, you know, when you look here where I'm defining these, these variables,
then you say, okay, it's easy.
A is the first name, B is the second name.
But maybe I'm going to keep using these variables many different times throughout a code file that has
hundreds of lines of code.
So then it's much easier to understand this code if you define it, if you give these variable names,
meaningful interpretable names.
Okay, so you already know that I can do something like this and multiply.
What would it mean to add two strings together.
Let's try that.
So first name plus last name.
You can probably guess what's going to happen.
It's just going to put them next to each other.
And this is called concatenation.
So we are concatenating these two strings using this plus sign.
In general this uh, concept of, uh, using the same operations in different ways depending on the
variable type is called overloading.
This is a term in computer science for when the plus sign means addition with numbers, and it means
concatenation with strings.
Okay.
Overloading.
Now I don't you know, I want to have a space in here.
So I'm actually going to, uh, add or concatenate a space in here like this.
And now we get Mike Cohen with a space in the middle.
And that comes from this part over here.
Okay.
And then let's see.
There's one last thing I want to introduce you to in this video.
And let's say age is how old do you think I am?
I'm going to say 26.
Uh, let's say uh, space.
Let's see what we have here.
Mike Cohen is and then I'm going to add another space is and then I want age and then plus years old.
So what I want this to say is a message.
I want this to print out a message that says Mike Cohen is I need and is here like this is.
And then another plus sign here.
You can see it gets pretty complicated to keep track of is 26 years old okay.
So this seems fine.
It is.
You know, you've already seen me struggling a little bit with getting all these plus signs in here.
Let's see what happens, huh?
We get an error and the error says can only concatenate string to string and not int.
Okay.
So the problem here is that age is an integer.
And all of these are strings.
So the plus sign is addition for numbers but concatenation for strings.
And we're trying to mix those different overloaded operations.
And Python is just getting confused.
So what we need to do here is transform this variable from a number into a string, and that is easy
to do using the function str, which converts a number into a string.
And now we get a result.
Now it turns out that this is by far not the best way to print out multiple variables like this together
in one line of text.
In a later section, I will introduce you to better methods like interpolation and f strings.
F strings in particular are fantastic for this kind of text formatting, but that will come later.
For now, suffice it to say that the plus sign can be used for string concatenation.
So this was quite an action packed video.
You learned all about variables.
You learned about different types of variables.
You learned about naming conventions and naming rules, and you learned about combining information
by string concatenation to print out a message.